Hey there, welcome to the Paws at Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Herron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12pm US Eastern Time. If
you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on, so find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there. I would love to go ahead and get started by introducing
our featured leader today, Victoria Prince, Senior Manager of Statistics at Takeda Pharmaceuticals.
Victoria, welcome. I would love you to tell us a little bit about yourself, your role,
and what you do for fun outside of work.
Thank you so much. I'm so happy to be here. I love hangouts. I try to join in whenever
I can, and you guys are amazing. The whole Paws at team is phenomenal. I love working
with you guys and hanging out as well. Not to give too much biography and background,
I'm from Ukraine. I grew up in Ukraine during the 90s. It was my school years. Then I went
to a polytech university there in the early 2000s. Then at some point, my sister moved
to the US in the early 2000s. I started exploring ways to also follow that path. She is much
older than me, and I wasn't really ready to enter the workforce in the US without much
experience. I was thinking, well, let's try grad school. Why not? I just decided to apply
to a whole bunch of places in New England. I was very, very lucky to get accepted into
one of the very good schools here. I went to Harvard Stats here. There is a funny story
with that, which I'm happy to share if people are interested. After coming here and pursuing
that path, the Stats PhD, I decided to stay. I tried different things along my career path
as trying a little bit of teaching, supporting research, doing consulting on the side. A
year and a half ago, I decided to do a major transition. So far, I've only been in the
higher ed environment, even though I explored multiple avenues there. I decided that's enough
of that and transitioned to the pharma industry, where I'm just enjoying every minute of it
as well. Driving in this morning into work, I was thinking, how would I describe my approach
to career, to life? Three words popped up. It's flexibility, curiosity, and dedication.
I try to be flexible in a way that pushing myself outside the comfort zone, flexibility
in that way. Then once I see something there, I'm trying to become curious about it. Then
if I truly feel that I can add value to this or it's going to add value to me, I try to be
very dedicated in pursuing that opportunity. I hope that will resonate with people on the call
today. I am sure that it will. I think that we are going to have some wonderful questions. I
really would love to ask you a little bit about, just to dig in a little bit more about your
transition from academia to the pharmaceutical industry. I know that that's a topic that a lot
of us can relate to. What were some of the things that were really pushing you?
Pushing you out of academia? Well, so my industry, we're leaving something,
but we're also moving towards something. Exactly. Another great question. My journey
through academia wasn't a classic one because very early on, pretty much during my study,
I realized that I'm probably not going to want to pursue the classic academic route, which is
become an assistant professor, publish a whole bunch of things, get a tenure, et cetera. I didn't
have that urge to be a theoretical. There are, of course, applied professors as well, but
that whole environment didn't really draw me. Instead, I found paths for a data scientist,
for a statistician, but in a much more applied setting. One of the things was I did some
institutional research, so basically crunching, actually, university data, which Harvard,
being one of the most famous universities, and a lot of famous people are going through it,
that eventually become famous. It does collect a lot of data about students, about faculty, about
alums, et cetera. There's really a great potential to crunch that data and learn.
Anyway, then I transitioned to a place, again, within that university that allowed me to support
research. All of that was a really great, fun experience, but what I realized, actually,
after I transitioned to industry, that it was a lot of depth as far as exploration of theories,
of domain knowledge in different areas, but at the end of the day, all of that felt theoretical.
One of the things that I just love being in, specifically pharma industry, that at the end
of the day, you're asked, okay, so what is the sample size that we need for the study? These are
actual human lives that you're basically calculating how many people, in your opinion,
are going to have a chance to receive this treatment under investigation. That feels so
much more impactful to me. Now, at the same time, I felt that I'm at an advantage
comparing to colleagues who went to industry right away, because
when you start focusing on something from day one, you will become an incredible expert in
that domain knowledge, but of course, there's only 24 hours in a day. It limits your
maybe ability to explore, to widen the knowledge. I feel like by going through these multiple
different experiences, I had a chance to widen, and that width now helps me see where I can add
value here beyond the statistics, beyond what my colleagues are their domain expertise in
specifically how to design clinical trials and all the wisdom and experience that comes with
being in this for 10, 15 years. I'm rapidly learning from them about that. I'm still very
much a novice in that, and I'm so grateful for them to be very patient with me, but at the same
time, one of the things that I realized that when you transition to pharma, especially 10, 15 years
ago, as a statistician, even if you were trained in open source, a lot of the times you will be
funneled into more of a proprietary software route. I didn't have to do that. I actually
had a chance to hone my skills in all kinds of different open source and other tools,
and that really helps me right now to see a bigger picture in terms of how can we
increase the access to tools in our country, I'm sorry, in our company,
and what would be the advantage of that so I can like add value in that where, you know, bring from
my other experiences. Yeah, that actually struck me. When you and I have spoken before,
the talks that we have had about you becoming sort of a de facto person, the go-to person,
almost like an internal IT person to help everybody get like updated versions of tooling,
updated versions of packaging, stuff like that. I would love to talk about that, but I want to hop
over into Slido because Noor asked a question that is exactly the question that I want to ask you,
so we can get some context about what you do. Noor, do you want to unmute and ask your question live?
Sure, I apologize in advance if I sound a little hoarse. Okay, what was it? Okay,
so it's like a two-part question, so kind of cheating, but broadly, what would you say your
day-to-day is like at Decatur? And then secondly, this is more of a broader question, what direction
would you say, if you can say, is Decatur heading towards both scientific focus as well as technology
focus? My knowledge of Decatur is primarily from the gastrointestinal side, because that's the side
that I used to work in for my PhD, actually was on gastrointestinal, like IBD and so forth, so
that's my familiarity with Decatur, but I don't know if they've expanded their portfolio and so
forth, so I will stop. Thank you, thank you, those are great questions. I definitely can speak to
the first one, that one is easier. My day-to-day, I would say, I guess it changes depending on what
is the immediate kind of deliverable that I have, so I recently transitioned, so I started in a group
that wasn't as much kind of heavily involved in the day-to-day of clinical trials, it was more
of a kind of like a consultant, and it was a good thing, because I was very new to the whole
industry, I needed really to get up to speed, so it was more like a consulting unit that
helped with like ad hoc analysis, something that is outside of the realm of like the usual day-to-day
for clinical trials, but I soon realized that without that experience kind of in the trenches,
so-called, I cannot really kind of like, you know, really grow and, you know, have a successful
career in this industry, so that's where, about a month and a half ago, I transitioned, so my day-to-day
changed pretty dramatically, so now I think it's kind of a mix of some downtime, like kind of like,
you know, thinking time, as far as like quiet time, I would say, figuring out, okay, what is the next
methodological thing that I need to catch up on, like, for example, Bayesian adaptive designs,
you know, something that I know kind of, I was, you know, fortunate enough to have the fundamental
knowledge of Bayesian statistics from my training, but, you know, these specific things, I still need
to kind of sit down and understand exactly what's going on there, so that's one, and also a bunch of
meetings where we, you know, figure out what are the next steps, as far as, you know, the progression
of the indication that we're trying to study and design, you know, a series of trials,
and sort of learning, and also talking to different stakeholders, like, be that regulatory,
clinical, medical, you know, clinical writing, all of these folks are incredible experts in their own,
kind of, as I am in my little area of statistics, they're experts in their little area, and
it's just so incredible to see how many people we need in a room, like a virtual room, to make
sure that the studies we are designing are sound, are ethical, are, you know, the best that we could
be, and the most efficient, and, you know, most, like, conforming to the standards, so it's sort
of like this kind of catching up, but also, you know, adding value where I can, and yes, and the
side gig, as Libby mentioned, that I have right now is kind of this, a little bit of an unofficial
go-to person for questions about R, from basically very different parts of the company, and that was
actually a deliberate effort over the course of a year and a half, I tried to make myself
known as that person, because one of the things that I, kind of, realized through,
kind of, trial and error, but then it turns out there is, like, a whole theory of organizational
behavior behind it, is that if you want to, kind of, gain, sort of, not influence, but sort of,
if you want people to start trusting you, going to you, is you need to try to understand what
value you can add to their lives, and that can only, in order to do that, it helps to
understand your strength, like, truly, you know, realize what is the value that you can add,
that it seems like, you know, it's kind of, like, lacking in the whole, you know, the place where
you are, and so it was a very deliberate effort on my end to show my expertise, to be very, very
generous with it, to, you know, basically, unless I'm in complete time crunch, to not, try not to
say no if people are asking for help, maybe ask to delay, but sort of, offering that help and
expertise, and then, you know, it kind of, like, sort of, from there, you know, the word spreads,
and kind of, people start, and then once you, you know, people are, you know, open to, like,
for your help, you know, it becomes mutual, and then you're, like, if you gain, sort of,
their trust, and at the same time, if there's something that you need their support from,
they're definitely much more willing to help, and so this is their first question.
Your second question about Takeda's, Takeda's direction in general, I can speak only in
general terms that there are definitely at least half a dozen very promising compounds that,
that are in, in a pipeline that we're expecting readouts, maybe this year, early next year,
and they are showing some great results already. I am specifically working, actually, on
DERM indications, so we're trying to explore and enter that DERM, or let's not enter,
but actually be a sort of more, have more solid representation in the DERM space.
GI definitely is a huge, as you said, it's still big, and it's going to become even bigger once
the, you know, the, the drugs that are currently under development are, you know,
going to show some readouts as well. There is plasma-derived therapies, right, there's a little
bit of vaccine direction as well, and neuro, of course, neuroscience, so I think there is a drug
related to narcolepsy, and actually there's some really cool technologies, so we have a whole
subgroup of our larger statistical group that is quantitative sciences, basically, so they are
also not necessarily focused on the trial work as much as they are focused on developing
kind of sophisticated models for kind of predicting, using, say, biomarker data or
other patient data on predicting the fact that they have a disease, for example, so that the
diagnosis actually can be much, so that discovery of patients to enroll will be kind of more
streamlined, so there's definitely a technology, technological kind of development going on as
well. Awesome. Yeah, I think that was great. I wanted to, I was going to ask little follow-ups
that were kind of just like on a really, really basic level, what type of data and what type of
analyses you do, but I see that we have some questions in the Slido that kind of ask along
these lines, so so many questions in Slido. Let's go ahead and get started there, and one of them,
the very top one that has a couple of replies on it, don't forget you can reply to people in Slido,
so we have some good replies on this first one. It's an anonymous question, and it says,
I'm an experienced data scientist, although I only have very basic level of statistical knowledge.
I'm intimidated by working with those who are statistical experts like modelers. Is there any
advice you can give me? That's a great question. Something that I wanted to, so I have a former
colleague of mine who I actually convinced to go to grad school for, she hasn't, of course not all
of us have that opportunity, but if she was kind of curious about grad school, I was, I highly
recommended her to kind of pursue that time, you know, maybe a couple of years to kind of dedicate
to going back to the roots of, you know, like the educational roots and really
emerging yourself in the kind of the fundamentals of the science, because I found that looking back,
that's basically the the most important thing that I kind of took away from my experience and,
going through the PhD in stats, is that I had a dedicated time and space and, you know,
like brain kind of like space, I would say, dedicated to really understanding the, you know,
deepest core, the core of the fundamental, because there's only very few fundamental principles.
I'm sure in any science, but in statistics, I would say, of course, there's, you know,
a lot that builds on top, but understand, but, you know, once you learn the different approaches,
it, and if you have great teachers, of course, that really helps, you realize that, yes,
the fundamentally, you know, that there's variance, bias, variance, trade-off, there's causal inference,
right, so and sort of getting a deeper understanding of those, starting from fundamentals,
that would be, you know, that would be the advice that I would give someone who is,
you know, fresh out of college. If people do have an opportunity to go back to school and
at least like do a couple of, you know, like evening classes, but actually like classes
with homeworks, like for real, you know, doing the reading, and it just, because that,
that going back and taking the time to take those classes, I think, will pay off
tenfold, hundredfold, so I think that's what I was just, it's, yeah, intimidation, I mean,
like ultimately, as far as working with people who have that deep knowledge, I would say,
try to find colleagues who are willing to teach you, so I'm all about spreading and sharing the
knowledge, and it's not as common in the industry, actually, this is another thing that I really
appreciate it, and I really miss about the higher ed, even in the setting of kind of a non-academic
setting within the higher ed, so I was basically kind of like member of a staff, if you, you know,
if I may, so there's like, and there's usually a very clear distinction, right, hierarchical,
almost, between, okay, there's your academic side or your staff side, so it's more of like a,
you know, kind of like a, what's the word, kind of like an added cost, right, to overhead,
I would call it, right, but nevertheless, being in that environment, it's very much inspiring to
continue, for continued learning, for professional development, people are willing to, you know,
give workshops, and you can always just kind of go to the other side and like attend a workshop,
I used to, when I was a staff member, I would still go to those causal inference workshops that
I would go to as a student, because they would still continue, and they are completely open to
sharing, so what, yeah, so I guess, and that's what's kind of honed this idea in me that
we need to, like, we need to be generous with our sharing of knowledge, especially among colleagues,
I mean, I know there's all proprietary questions, if like sharing knowledge across companies,
even though, like, I so appreciate POSIT, you know, supporting the open source community and
the development of these packages and kind of dissemination of those, you know, completely free,
that's incredible, and that's kind of the spirit that I'm trying, I'm really hoping to
support within any company where I work, so I guess, yeah, finding colleagues who are willing
to mentor and to, you know, to sit down and explain, that's another, maybe, path forward.
Yeah, find a mentor, or just find some friends, find some data friends, and I wanted to sort of
plug, I will put it in the chat as well, I kind of want to plug edX, I love edX, I don't know if
anybody else does, but, like, you can take university courses, just, like, piecemeal,
one by one, I've taken, like, really fun math courses from ASU, I've taken different, like,
Biostats courses, there are actual university courses, and you don't, you know, you could do
them for free, you could get certificates if you want to pay for that, really go check it out,
because doing that in your free time, instead of committing to an entire PhD or entire grad program,
could be much more attainable, and there's so much you can get out of, like, one or two stats classes.
Yes, thank you for that, thank you for your anonymous question, I'm so glad that you asked,
and I really hope that you take the dive and go take some stats classes, and make some friends.
All right, we have another question here, and it is an anonymous question, and it's really, I think,
just getting some context around the techniques and the statistical learning techniques that you
use at Takeda, could you just talk a little bit about some of the statistical techniques that you
get to use in industry? Great question, I don't, I never really kind of thought of it
sort of as special techniques, because what was something that I learned back in my time
in the business school, being sort of supporting research there, is that usually
the professors that go, that end up in business school, a lot of the times they come from very,
very different areas, thinking it could be finance, it could be econ, it could be accounting,
it could be org behavior, and a lot of the times, so they had very different trainings,
including they use different tools, and if they're in econ or kinematics, they use different,
maybe statistical, or the names of the statistical techniques, but again, fundamentally,
those are all kind of similar concepts, so basically, I would, the approaches, the general
kind of overarching directions that I would split the techniques into are either it's predictive,
or it's inferential, right, so either you are trying to find some kind of causal relationship,
or some kind of an effect that would be more of an inferential, or what you're purely interested
in is that, okay, we have these parameters, they're predicting this response, what if we
gain new parameters, what is going to be the response, you don't really care about how those
parameters are actually predicting that, it's just, it's kind of like more like this kind of
deep learning, the machine learning, the black box approach, and so I think I find myself,
you know, throughout my career, working with both, and it's kind of a nice, it's a nice skill
to understand, okay, which one is more relevant, which approach works better for this particular
purpose. As far as specifically a pharma statistician, I think the biggest, one of
the biggest so far that I'm seeing, biggest area of statistical knowledge that is very important
is the ability to power, so-called power the trials, in other words, understanding of the
methods that are involved in calculating what is the sample size that we need to collect to
detect a certain effect, and there's this Bayesian borrowing, right, there's this adaptive
design, so all of that is, that's where they are looking at us as statisticians to really
provide guidance. By they, I mean, you know, clinicians, everyone who is involved in the
development of the trial. So I would definitely pay attention to those, because that's what I'm
trying to, like, you know, practically catch up on as far as the knowledge on my end.
Awesome.
And yeah.
Oh no, I didn't mean to interrupt you.
No, no.
I was just going to say, like, we have a good sort of follow-on to exactly what you just said
from Morgana. So Morgana, if you want to request an unmute and ask your question live, that would
be great.
Awesome. I'm just going to go back and see what it was that I asked.
I highlighted it in Slido for you, so it should be at the top in green.
Thank you. So my question was, could you please talk more about your considerations for sample
size? I'm familiar with some techniques that are used for survey sample size determination,
like Slobin's formula, but I'm, I always get a little confused when determining other
survey sizes and end up needing to do a lot of research. So I'm curious what kind of things
you think about and what techniques you're using.
Right. No, this is a great question.
I try to kind of go back to the fundamentals. So what does it mean to
power a study or calculate a sample size? Well, there's like several kind of moving parts to it,
so there's so-called type one error and type two error. So type one error is the chance of
detecting something where it's not there, and the type two error is not detecting something
that is there. So by calculating the sample size, we're basically trying to get the number that
would be needed to kind of account for both of these. Usually the sample size determination is
pegged to some kind of statistical technique that will be used to ultimately find that effect.
So usually you kind of need to agree on, okay, once we collect the data,
what is the statistical technique that we're going to be using to find that difference,
that effect size, be that like t-test or chi-square test or ANOVA, whatever.
So then stepping back from that, all of it can be done as a simulation. So you can envision
your entire trial. And I find that's the most intuitive for me to understand what's going on
behind the scenes is you just start basically simulating your trial. So these are my control,
this is my treatment, this is what we observe, this is the test that I apply. Okay, am I rejecting
or not? So in other words, you can soon realize that you don't really need the fancy packages
that do it for you. There's much more value in understanding what, in sort of tracing those
steps yourself. So I would actually, and with the accessibility of these LLMs or the larger
language models that help us with coding right now, I feel like there's really, I would just
kind of start from there, just start simulating. And you don't really need mathematics if you do
that. Does that answer it? That's really, really helpful. And it kind of works with a project that
I was trying to do earlier and kind of was running into roadblocks where I had my data,
I had pulled a sample to use for one specific thing, and then got to the next metric and realized
I didn't have enough data for that metric, although I did in the first place. And I was
running into issues with processing power where the amount that I needed to have was going to be
really difficult to obtain quickly. So that is really helpful to sort of narrate it all out
first and simulate everything. Thank you. Of course. Awesome. Thank you for the great question,
Markana. We have some questions in the Slido that are geared towards the same sort of thing,
which is really about opportunities at Takeda. But I think more broadly, just how to get your
foot in the door if you don't have experience in pharma. So Sonia asked a question, what are
the names of entry level roles that someone who has no bio or pharma experience can apply to in
order to get their foot in the door? Or what roles do you see as growing, a.k.a. not going
away because of AI? So there's sort of two parts to this question. And I think that that sort of
like what does an entry level role look like is an interesting one. That's a very good question.
So I can give you, there's a little bit of story that I can share how I got this job.
And maybe it'll help someone else to kind of it's sort of like an old story. It's networking. Right.
But but I didn't kind of I wasn't trying to very being very deliberate about it. It's just kind of
it's just like it basically it's like a domino effect. So I once it's kind of a deliberate
domino effect, I would say. So once I kind of came to conclusion in my prior role that I think
there is a need for a change or for moving on this way. And I've been at the same institution,
even though it's a big and fascinating institution. I've been there for 15 years. It's like, OK,
I pretty much know how it works internally. I need to move on, even though it's very dynamic.
Higher ed is so dynamic. It's like it's like the cycles, like it's just constantly changing
because people are constantly, you know, in and out. Right. It's like there's a four year cycle.
And then in grad school, there is a five year cycle. Right. So when I decided that I am happy
to move on, I just deliberately realized that, OK, why don't I attend a conference that I used
to attend quite often? It was a yearly conference called Joint Statistical Meeting, JSM.
But I sort of like because I wasn't doing very theoretical methodological work and I wasn't as
deliberate in attending it lately. But I was like, OK, I need to go and I need to see what's out
there. What are what are what is the current job landscape? How can I, you know, apply myself there?
And during just one of the socials there, I ran into a recruiter that actually I probably
have known for maybe 10, 10 years at least, because as when I started going to that conference
early on in my grad school, she was actively kind of trying to recruit there. And and every time I
was there, we would just kind of chat and I would bump into her. But this time she didn't really
strike a conversation with me. I actually approached her and said, OK, Maria, I'm ready to
move on. What do you have for me? And she kind of just jumped on it. So it was and it was a chance
to counter really just a social. And, you know, I didn't know that I would see her, but I saw her
like, OK, why don't I just approach her so that we taught it. Then we went back. She didn't really
kind of like had a little bit of a break in communication. And then I reached out again.
So do you have anything for me? And she sent out a couple of job descriptions.
And the one of them looked kind of I sort of like decided not to pursue that one right away
because there were some weird red flags in just the job description alone. It was basically
like full of typos. And it's like, this is not OK. And the other one was really interesting.
It's like, well, let's just do that. And, you know, the rest is history because it was basically
one and only. And I don't recommend that necessarily. It was like the like one and
only job application and as well as the interview that I actually had. But they ended up hiring me.
And again, it's in retrospect, it is pretty it is it's it's not that easy to get in to industry
after 10, 15 years somewhere else. And the kind of trade off that you do need to start sort of
lower than where you you would have possibly have been given if you if you spend those 10,
15 years in this industry. But you kind of make up for that with the breadth.
And hopefully the progression up is faster, hopefully. But, you know, to address the
second part is what are the entering roles here? Something that I realized,
again, like with like a lack of experience in industry, there is there's so much heterogeneity
in the names of those roles within each industry. So what really that recruiter like, you know,
so my title was senior manager in statistics. I would not in thousand years apply to if I saw
this title, if I didn't know that recruiter who basically knew how the hierarchy works
in this particular industry. So I highly recommend, actually, if you in the industry that
you're interested in, find the people who are there, find the recruiters who work with it and
let them explain to you specifically for pharma. I realized that, yeah, right out of grad school,
I think you start as like a scientist or a statistical scientist or statistician,
then you become a senior statistician, then maybe you become a manager, then senior manager, then
associate director, et cetera. Now, what's interesting, though, is that at least here
in Takeda, I don't see I even see senior directors that are not really managing people.
So you can grow pretty far if you don't want to sort of take the management route. You still want
to be sort of individual contributor, but you definitely your reach needs to be much wider
if you get to that level. So there's opportunities there. And I know my sister is in IT and I speak
to her a lot about the career ladder and progression. And she's telling the things
that she's telling me that are true in IT as far as career ladder are not necessarily
completely not the same here as a statistical in R&D statistician. So there's so much variability
between industries. So I highly recommend to kind of consult with someone. Yeah. Talk to people. I
just put in the chat if everybody could reply with what the entry level data person role is at your
organizations, maybe we can get a little list going of things to look for, because it can be
pretty confusing. I know that I've worked at some organizations where there are analyst levels or
scientist levels that are like one through three, and one is the highest and three is the lowest.
And I've worked in some organizations where it's the opposite, where one is the lowest and three
is the highest. You kind of don't know unless you can go talk to people. Those are great questions.
We have over 15 questions in Slido, Victoria. So I'm going to challenge you to a lightning round
where let's see how many we can get through in about 10 minutes. So some of these I'm going to
ask for people just so that we can get in as many as we can. And I wanted to really make sure that I
combined a couple of them. Michelle had asked one that was about finding your mentorship style.
So the juicy part of the question, I really like this. Do you have any advice on finding that
balance between guiding somebody versus doing the work for them when you're helping a junior
colleague? Oh, that's a good question. So I think I got a lot of that kind of experience through
teaching. So we did a lot of teaching in grad school and post-grad school. Yeah, I mean, and
also actually now that I'm a fairly new mom. So the idea is that you lead people to an answer.
You don't give an answer. And I'm not a people manager yet. So I can't speak to how that actually
works in practice as far as if you need something to get done and the person is not doing it. But
I think with the mentorship that I had experience with, I would say just break it down into small,
the pieces that are small enough that you think the person will be able to follow and then assign
those still, like make sure that they are, they own those small pieces and they come back to you
with results. So that's what, you know, that's what I would do. Fantastic. I fully agree with
that advice, Victoria. If anyone's curious about Libby's idea, yeah, lead them to the answer,
but don't give it to them. And you're right about that. Like there's a little bit of a balance in how
quickly something needs to get done. How much runway do you have for learning in this particular
situation versus is this like a highly time sensitive thing? So great considerations.
Okay. Abby, Abby Allison asked a question that I actually have on my list to ask Victoria as well,
which is, can you talk more about the R adoption initiatives that you have helped drive
since you transitioned to industry? And I know that this is a very loaded question. You could
probably talk a bunch about it. What can you share with us about? Oh my God. Maybe advice on like
how we can also be a force for that sort of like updating technology and stuff and,
and, or moving to open source. Yeah. I mean, it's, to me, it's still kind of a learning
experience because I'm trying to understand how to make a bigger impact. But yeah, I mean,
it all started when, so when I joined Takeda, one of the, coming from a place where I basically like
had like all the tools that I could possibly use and like, you know, on my laptop where,
you know, state SAS, SPSS, like whatever professors wanted us to kind of use it,
it would just, we just did it. So I, it's kind of, it was important to me to be like tool agnostic
and R definitely is my go-to tool for anything statistical. So coming here and realizing there's
really not, there's kind of like a little bit of a vacuum as for the people that are using R,
but there's no kind of, you know, more like a general understanding was the kind of best
practice to do it. I started kind of like on a journey. Okay. So trying to understand who is
in charge of this system versus that system, what's the best way to use it. And so, and what
a year later, once I collected all of those bits and pieces, what I did is, and actually I was
grateful that people here recognized sort of my kind of grassroots efforts and gave me a sort of
like this unofficial kind of, they call it like R resource hub leader role that, so now it's like,
makes it a little bit more official that I can sort of, it kind of opens doors a little bit more,
I would say. But what I ended up doing is created a little SharePoint website where I kind of almost
downloaded everything that I held in my brain and sort of organized so that other people could now,
you know, make use of that. So it's kind of deliberate effort to collect and get to the
bottom of things to collect information and then making sure you share it with others.
And as you share, you realize that people actually share back and what they know,
and it sort of enriches what you know. So it wasn't kind of like, to me, it wasn't a challenge
of like getting people to start using R, it's more like removing the obstacles for them.
Yes, remove roadblocks. There's a concept that sort of, I think it's called force field analysis,
where you're like, you have this goal of what you're moving towards, or what you would like
to move towards, and part of the analysis is like, how can we push towards that, but also how can we
remove the roadblocks so that natural momentum towards that is not impeded? Great, fantastic
advice. Abby, thank you so much for that question. It was wonderful. And I see, let's see, what do
we have here? And we have 12 minutes left. How many can we get in here? Arsene has asked a question,
how do you see the relationship between statistics and data science? So more specifically,
do you see clear lines between stats, ML, AI and other domains or subdomains?
Relationships between them? That's a great question. I mean,
there's a whole bunch of these, there are different versions of these Venn diagrams,
right? So there's usually overlap, there's math and stats, there's computer science, and then
there's knowledge domain, and all of that overlap equals data science, right? So I guess I would
probably subscribe to that. So data science to me is, yeah, so
knowing the methods that you're applying, like to the best of your ability, try to get to the
bottom of exactly what's going on behind the scene. To me, I found it extremely helpful
so that I can right away see if that approach is not going to work, or if that approach is applied,
maybe not necessarily in the best way, and how to improve upon what we've already applying.
And I know these are abstract things, but the bottom line is to spend as much time as you can,
as feasible, to understand the methodology. Then be tool agnostic, so computer science part, right?
So try to understand kind of like how the, you know, these are just tools, basically.
They help us apply that science, right? Apply that statistics. And ideally, we want to use
the best tool that would be helpful in this situation. So in other words, like I wouldn't
focus like, oh, well, I know R, then that's the only thing that I'm going to use. Sometimes
Python actually is better, sometimes. SAS is great. So all of that, you know, try to be as,
like, to develop breadth in the tools. And then finally, like something that I'm trying to catch
up on right now is, of course, the domain knowledge, the realization. What are the,
because of course, math and, you know, coding is great, but ultimately you want to add value. You
want to tie it all back to real life, and that's where the domain knowledge comes, and that's where
so wherever you apply that, those skills, it's important to understand that the stakeholders,
what are the, what are the things we need to consider from real life, you know,
beyond the methodology itself. So I always, when I approach a new project,
I always just sit down with the, with the clients, with the stakeholders, and ask, okay,
what is the, what is the question? Give me in plain language, the question that we're trying
to answer, or what, how are we going to use this before kind of throwing the machine learning,
like the machine learning kind of model on it? Is it really necessary? What is the ultimate goal? So
try to start with that. Thank you, Victoria. Right, Arsenis, thank you so much for that great
question. We have a couple of questions here that I'm hoping we can get through pretty quickly.
We've got about eight minutes left, and one of them is from Will. Will says that he graduated
with his master's in statistical practice at the start of 2023, and has had one internship,
but no full-time jobs. So any advice for unemployed people in this area? And I see a couple of
replies on that, so feel free to help Will out in Slido if you want to reply there as well.
Ah, that's a good question. So I think going back to those three things that I mentioned earlier
that helped me throughout my career is flexibility, curiosity, and dedication. So I think maybe see,
just do maybe some like informational interviews, reach out to people that you think you'll like
what they're doing, and ask them how they got there. Maybe they will have some kind of internship,
try another internship. So maybe just kind of widen that horizon where you're thinking of
applying yourself. Something that helped me throughout my career, actually, I probably had
dozens and dozens of little consulting projects on the side. Even just starting from grad school,
it was just going to be maybe like for a pharma company, I would, you know,
join their HR department for a little bit and help out to crunch some numbers, right? Or
I had the craziest gig that I had was with, which was, I think it was People magazine,
out of all places, right? So what would a statistician do there? But they actually
approached me and asked me to analyze the data on fashion choices and the chance of winning an
Oscar. So basically whatever the celebrities wore that day and whether they won an Oscar or not. I
mean, obviously it was just kind of like a little bit of a silly sort of kind of like approach,
I guess, or sort of like a fun way of doing it. But yeah, I was like, oh, somebody who wore red
lipstick was twice as likely to win an Oscar that day. So, you know, but again, like this
was a really cool just exposure to, you know, how People magazine operates. So.
Yeah, but also big question here. How did People magazine find you? Because if you weren't working
out loud before that, and if you weren't making yourself visible, they never could have reached
out to you, right? Exactly. But yeah, so be visible. Yeah. I know, like blog posts, you know,
just talk to people. Yeah. I mean, that's another thing, actually, that I was trying to. Did I
press something? Oh, sorry, close it. I don't know what happened. Something that I kind of,
in retrospect, what helped me a lot within Takeda is to kind of put my name out there,
not only in the sort of volunteering or, you know, offering help, but actually,
you know, so we are organizing these POSIT or R workshops throughout the year. And I just kind of
send out invites to hundreds of my colleagues, and they see my name. And then, you know, when I
kind of like run into them in the car, it's like, oh, Victoria Prince. Oh, I've heard, I've seen your
name somewhere. It's like, yeah, probably those emails, the invitation to some R workshops. So,
you know, just make yourself visible because, you know, because you're doing great work. So
it's important for people to kind of realize that and then know that you're a go-to person.
Yes. And if you are, if you don't have a team, you're not already employed in a position,
you still probably have lots of people that you could reach out to, and you could organize
something like a career panel where you reach out to three or four people who are in data roles,
get them together for a talk, invite a bunch of fellow students or fellow recent graduates.
I promise you that making yourself visible is worth it. All right. How many more questions
can we get through in two minutes? Let's see. Dean Hansen asked, does Takeda maintain any
in-house R packages? And what are some of the tools from POSIT that you use at Takeda to support
R and R adoption? No, that's a great question. So I think,
I don't believe we have R packages that were developed deliberately internally.
We are still sort of at the somewhat early stages of kind of formalizing, finalizing the
statistical computing environment that would, you know, entail, you know,
several tools. So for now, we do definitely have POSIT cloud and, you know, people use RStudio
desktop. But sort of now the process of kind of formalizing all of that and creating an environment
where that there's kind of that with multiple tools accessible to people is still kind of
underdeveloped. And it's a very big undertaking, especially because the
area we work is, it has to be compliant, has to be very regulated. So developing such systems
requires a lot of effort and a lot of collaboration with multiple functions. Yeah.
That's a great question, though. I know that there are, I have a few friends who are in
pharmaceutical companies who their whole job is maintaining internal R packages. I think it also
depends on like where the organization is in general and their sort of journey to open source,
maybe they're more in SAS or somewhere else. So that's a great question, Dean.
All right. We only have three minutes left, and I know that we want to probably wrap things up.
So I'd like to just finish with a question about.
Libby, if I may.
Oh, go ahead.
People should definitely feel free to reach out to me on LinkedIn if they want to continue asking
questions. I'm totally happy to answer. Yeah. I'm gonna put that in the chat right now,
actually, Victoria's LinkedIn, so everybody can go connect. And you definitely have already
covered a lot of this with what we talked about with being visible and with talking to people.
But I just wanted to sneak in a question about career advice. Do you have any career advice
broadly for anybody that's really helped you over time? So career advice, I would say flexible,
curious, dedicated. Right. So there is, I feel like it's still a great time to be a statistician,
to be a data scientist, because data are everywhere. Now, of course, there's these
deep learning models. There's LLMs that fear may take over. But I think we need to make sure we
keep in mind what added value we can offer. So understand your skill set. If there's something,
there's a gap, if you try to fill in. But I would say just kind of be flexible, just
really explore, widen that reach. There's some very unexpected places where a
statistical and data science skill and knowledge can be applicable.
Awesome. Thank you so much, Victoria. We probably don't have time to fit anything
else in. Everyone's jumping for their next call. Thank you so much, everybody,
for hanging out with us. We still have so many questions that were asked in Slido. I'm going
to try to gather some of them, send them to Victoria so she can see them. And also maybe
we can open up that discussion on LinkedIn, and everybody can chime in and help answer
from the community. So Victoria, thanks so much for hanging out with us today.
I hope you had a good time. Thank you. It's been a great pleasure. Thank you so much. Wonderful
questions. And Libby and the team, thank you so much for doing all the behind-the-scenes.
Behind-the-scenes magic. Rachel did a lot of that. So thank you, Rachel and Isabella,
for all of your moderation work. Have a wonderful week, everybody. Enjoy your weekend. We will see
you here next week. We're going to have Varun Dwaraka, Director of Bioinformatics and Principal
Investigator at True Diagnostic. He is so much fun to talk to. I cannot wait for everybody to
meet him. So please join us next week. It is during ShinyConf. So keep a spot in your calendar
open during ShinyConf to come hang out with us, okay? I'm going to stay on for another just minute
here. Let everybody say goodbye, have access to resources in the chat. Make sure that you're able
to click all the links. And if you would like to save the chat, there's little three buttons that
you can click in the top right corner of the chat. And you can go to save chat. All right,
everybody. Thanks so much. Have a wonderful day. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Bye, everybody.
Somebody just asked about ShinyConf. So I just want to make sure I have that link.
Yes. That conference. Yeah. Posted by Appsalong team. Very easy to find www.shinyconf.com.
And it's next week. And also put the hangout site on the Posit site just now into the chat. If you
have never seen that before, you can see all the upcoming featured leaders there, as well as all
the recordings. Of course, they're on YouTube as well. But they're there on the Posit site too.
Yeah, absolutely. Maudo, hi. Hey, it's so good to see you. I don't get to see everybody's face
all the time. Neil, it's so good to see you. Noor, thank you so much for your questions today.
Rohan also asked great questions that we didn't get to get to and Sean did as well.
But we really appreciate it. Thank you so much. Thanks. Bye, everybody. Bye.